# RGAA 3.2016 - Rule 11.1.2

## Summary
This test consists in checking the presence and the unicity of the `"id"` attribute of each form field associated with a `<label>` tag. We assume here that a form field is associated with a `<label>` tag when its `"id"` attribute corresponds to the `"for"` attribute of any `<label>` tag.

## Business description

### Criterion
[11.1](http://references.modernisation.gouv.fr/rgaa-accessibilite/2016/criteres.html#crit-11-1)

### Test
[11.1.2](http://references.modernisation.gouv.fr/rgaa-accessibilite/2016/criteres.html#test-11-1-2)

### Description
<div lang="fr">Chaque <a href="http://references.modernisation.gouv.fr/rgaa-accessibilite/2016/glossaire.html#champ-de-saisie-de-formulaire">champ de formulaire</a>, associ&#xE9; &#xE0; une <a href="http://references.modernisation.gouv.fr/rgaa-accessibilite/2016/glossaire.html#tiquette-de-champs-de-formulaire">&#xE9;tiquette</a> (balise <code lang="en">label</code>), v&#xE9;rifie-t-il ces conditions&nbsp;? <ul><li>Le champ de formulaire poss&#xE8;de un attribut <code lang="en">id</code>&nbsp;;</li> <li>La valeur de l&#x2019;attribut <code lang="en">id</code> est unique&nbsp;;</li> <li>La balise <code lang="en">label</code> poss&#xE8;de un attribut <code lang="en">for</code>&nbsp;;</li> <li>La valeur de l&#x2019;attribut <code lang="en">for</code> est &#xE9;gale &#xE0; la valeur de l&#x2019;attribut <code lang="en">id</code> du champ de formulaire associ&#xE9;.</li> </ul></div>

### Level
**A**

## Technical description

### Scope
**Page**

### Decision level
**Decidable**

## Algorithm

### Selection

#### Set1 (input form fields)

All the `<input>` tags within a `<form>` tag with a `"type"` attribute equals to:
-  "text"
-   or "password"
-   or "checkbox"
-   or "radio"
-   or "file"
-   or "search"
-   or "tel"
-   or "email"
-   or "number"
-   or "url"
-   or "date"
-   or "range"
-   or "color"
-   or "time"

AND all the `<textarea>`, `<select>`, `<datalist>`, `<keygen>` tags AND for all of them no `"aria-label"`, `"aria-labelledby"` or `"title"` attribute.

#### Set2 

All the `<label>` tags within a  `<form>` tag

#### Set3 

All the element of **Set1** with no `<label>` tag as parent.

#### Set4 

All the element of **Set2** with an `<input>` child with an `"id"` attribute.

### Process

#### Tests

##### Test1

For each element of **Set1**, test if the node contains a not empty `"id"` attribute.

For each occurence of false-result of **Test1**, raise a MessageA.

##### Test2

For each element of **Set1** with an `"id"` attribute, test that this id is unique on the page.

For each occurence of false-result of **Test2**, raise a MessageB.

##### Test3

For each element of **Set2**, test if this element has a not empty `"for"` attribute.

For each occurence of false-result of **Test3**, raise a MessageC.

##### Test4

For each element in **Set3**, test if the `"id"` attribute is equals to the `"for"` attribute of a `<label>` in the same <form>.

For each occurence of false-result of **Test4**, raise a MessageD.

##### Test5

For each element in **Set4**, test if the `"for"` attribute is equals to the "`id`" attribute of the `<input>` in the same <form>.

For each occurence of false-result of **Test5**, raison a MessageE.

#### Messages

##### MessageA : Id attribute missing

- code :IdMissing
- status: Failed
- parameter : tag name
- present in source : yes

##### MessageB : Id Not Unique

- code :IdNotUnique
- status: Failed
- parameter : tag name
- present in source : yes

##### MessageC : For attribute Missing

- code :ForMissing
- status: Failed
- parameter : tag name
- present in source : yes

##### MessageD : Input Not linked To Label. 

- code :InvalidInput
- status: Failed
- parameter : tag name
- present in source : yes

##### MessageE : Label Not linked To Input Child. 

- code :InvalidLabel
- status: Failed
- parameter : tag name
- present in source : yes

### Analysis

#### Not Applicable

There is no input form tag on the page (**Set1** is empty).

#### Failed

At least one input element on the page is not well linked with a label. (**Test1** OR **Test2** OR **Test3** OR **Test4** OR **Test5** return false for at least one element).

#### Passed

All input on the page are well associated with a label. (**Test1** AND **Test2** AND **Test3** AND **Test4** AND **Test5** return true for all the elements).



##  TestCases

[TestCases files for rule 11.1.2](https://github.com/Asqatasun/Asqatasun/tree/develop/rules/rules-rgaa3.2016/src/test/resources/testcases/rgaa32016/Rgaa32016Rule110102/)


