# RGAA 3.0 -  Rule 11.1.3

## Summary

This test consists in checking the presence and the unicity of the `"id"` attribute of each label associated with a form input tag through the `"aria-labelledby"` attribute.

## Business description

### Criterion

[11.1](http://disic.github.io/rgaa_referentiel_en/RGAA3.0_Criteria_English_version_v1.html#crit-11-1)

###Test

[11.1.3](http://disic.github.io/rgaa_referentiel_en/RGAA3.0_Criteria_English_version_v1.html#test-11-1-3)

### Description
Does each <a href="http://disic.github.io/rgaa_referentiel_en/RGAA3.0_Glossary_English_version_v1.html#mChpSaisie">form
  field</a> associated with a label, via the ARIA
    <code>aria-labelledby</code> property, meet the following
    conditions?
    <ul><li> The label has an <code>id</code>
   attribute</li>
  <li>The value of the <code>id</code>
   attribute is unique</li>
  <li> The value of the ARIA
   <code>aria-labelledby</code> property matches the value of the
   label <code>id</code> attribute</li>
    </ul> 


### Level

**A**

## Technical description

### Scope

**Page**

### Decision level

**Decidable**

## Algorithm

### Selection
 
#### Set1

All the input form tags with a `"aria-labelledby"` attribute (form textarea[aria-labelledby] , form select[aria-labelledby] , form input[type=password][aria-labelledby] , form input[type=checkbox][aria-labelledby] , form input[type=file][aria-labelledby] , form input[type=text][aria-labelledby] , form input[type=radio][aria-labelledby])

### Process

#### Tests

##### Test1

For each element of **Set1**, test if the `"aria-labelled"` attribute is not empty.

For each occurence of false-result of **Test1**, raise a MessageA.

##### Test2

For each element of **Set1**, test if the value of the `"aria-labelledby"` attribute corresponds to an existing `"id"` on the page.

For each occurence of false-result of **Test2**, raise a MessageB.

##### Test3

For each element of **Set1**, test if the value of the `"aria-labelledby"` attribute corresponds to a unique `"id"` on the page.

For each occurence of false-result of **Test2**, raise a MessageC.

#### Messages 

##### MessageA : Aria labelledby attribute present but empty

- code : **AriaLabelledbyEmpty**
- status: Failed
- parameter : tag name
- present in source : yes

##### MessageB : Form element without label

- code : **FormElementWithoutLabel**
- status: Failed
- parameter : tag name
- present in source : yes

##### MessageC : Form element with not unique label

- code : **FormElementWithNotUniqueLabel**
- status: Failed
- parameter : tag name
- present in source : yes

### Analysis

#### Not Applicable

The page has no input form tag with a `"aria-labelledby"` attribute (**Set1** is empty)

#### Passed

All the form tags with a `"aria-labelledby"` attribute are associated with their label correctly (**Test1** AND **Test2** AND **Test3** return true for all elements)

#### Failed

At least one input form tag with a `"aria-labelledby"` attribute is not associated with its label correctly (**Test1** OR **Test2** OR **Test3** return false for at least one element)




##  TestCases 

[TestCases files for rule 11.1.3](https://github.com/Asqatasun/Asqatasun/tree/master/rules/rules-rgaa3.0/src/test/resources/testcases/rgaa30/Rgaa30Rule110103/) 


